# smart-brain
This app contains a front-end website that is connected to a server located in HEROKU, with a database that records users´activity in HEROKU as well. The description of the app is the following:

The app contains 2 folders: one for the front-end application in which the React App is located, with its several components and another folder containing the back-end information. In the fist folder:
1. React was used to implement JavaScript to manipulate the DOM, HTML elements for information and giving the structure to the page and css to style the app. Is is important to add that tachyons was used for this project and I found it really easy-to-work-with; its syntax allows multiple changes ina  very short period of time by just edititng the classNames of the components you wish to edit. The front-end was made out of different components and allows the user to register giving a name, an email and a password that is secured by a hash (later explained in the backend section). Once registered, the user can logout from the page and its information will be stored so that he or she can easily sign in just delivering the given email and password. Once inside the main website of the page, the user is able to insert an image´s link so that the app can clearly identify the face of the given image, putting a box around the person´s face. This is because the use of the Clarifai API, specifically the FACE-DETECTION model that the company allows developers to use. The box was determined by a little bit of math fot he proportions of the given outputs that the clarifai model exports. The page also will register the amount of images a user has uploaded to the site.

In the second folder:
2. Used node.js and express to create the server of our project, which allows us to interact with our frontend code. Communicating the server every time an image is uploaded. This backend section allows us to also securely store a user´s password using bcrypt and providing a hash that will keep private information secure. Here is also where we store the amount of times a user has uploaded an image to the app. Postman was used to test out the different endpoints of the app; giving put, post, and get requests. Postman also helped out in the sense that it was needed to see the various outputs that each endpoint was giving when working in each one of them; Postman was really helpful to visualize the results and the progress the page or site was having throught the construction of its endpoints. 

3. Created a database to store the user´s information, specifically Postgres in case the Node server crashed. I also used SQL statements to create two separate tables to store the users´ information. It is also important to mention that HEROKU stores the information inside its servers so that the app runs automatically. Used Knex library to store information and hashing utilities to store passwords as well. An important fact to add is that, inside the second table called logins, we can see the information of each user´s password with a randomly generated hash that helps to keep the privacy of the personal information we are displaying. It was really easy to add this database reading through the very-well organized documentation that Heroku offers to anyone trying to build an app with them. 